.TH THANE 1 "2026-03-20" "thane 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
thane \- AI-native terminal workspace manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B thane
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B thane
is a workspace manager for AI coding agents on Linux. It combines a terminal
emulator (VTE), embedded browser (WebKitGTK), and rich sidebar metadata into
project-centric workspaces that are fully scriptable via a JSON-RPC socket API.
.PP
Each workspace contains a split-pane tree of terminal and browser panels,
with sidebar metadata including git branch, open ports, and notifications.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print help information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
.SS Workspace Management
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+T
Create a new workspace.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+W
Close the active workspace.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Tab
Switch to the next workspace.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+Tab
Switch to the previous workspace.
.TP
.B Ctrl+B
Enter leader key mode (tmux-style prefix).
.SS Leader Key Mode (after Ctrl+B)
.TP
.B n
Next workspace.
.TP
.B p
Previous workspace.
.TP
.B c
Create workspace.
.TP
.B x
Close workspace.
.TP
.B ,
Rename workspace.
.TP
.B 1\-9
Jump to workspace by number.
.SS Split Panes
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+D
Split the focused pane to the right.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+E
Split the focused pane downward.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+X
Close the focused pane.
.TP
.B Alt+H, Alt+J, Alt+K, Alt+L
Focus the pane to the left, below, above, or to the right.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+Z
Toggle zoom on the focused pane.
.SS General
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+B
Toggle sidebar visibility.
.TP
.B Ctrl+I
Toggle notification panel.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+C
Copy selected text.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+V
Paste from clipboard.
.TP
.B F11
Toggle fullscreen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables are set in shells spawned by thane:
.TP
.B THANE_WORKSPACE_ID
UUID of the workspace containing the terminal.
.TP
.B THANE_SURFACE_ID
UUID of the terminal panel.
.TP
.B THANE_SOCKET_PATH
Path to the Unix domain socket for the JSON-RPC API.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/thane/config
Per-user configuration file (Ghostty-compatible key=value format).
.TP
.I ~/.config/ghostty/config
Ghostty configuration file (read as fallback).
.TP
.I $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/thane/thane.sock
Unix domain socket for the JSON-RPC API.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/thane/sessions/
Session persistence directory (auto-saved every 8 seconds).
.SH EXAMPLES
Launch thane:
.PP
.RS
.B thane
.RE
.PP
Control from another terminal:
.PP
.RS
.B thane-cli workspace list
.RE
.PP
Send a notification from within a spawned shell:
.PP
.RS
.nf
echo '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"notification.send",
  "params":{"title":"Build","body":"Done"},"id":1}' \\
  | socat - UNIX-CONNECT:$THANE_SOCKET_PATH
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR thane-cli (1),
.BR ghostty (1),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR zellij (1)
.SH AUTHORS
thane contributors.
.SH LICENSE
AGPL-3.0-or-later. Commercial licensing available.
