.TH THANE-CLI 1 "2026-03-20" "thane 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
thane-cli \- command-line client for thane
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B thane-cli
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B thane-cli
is the command-line client for controlling a running
.BR thane (1)
instance via its JSON-RPC socket API. It can manage workspaces, split panes,
control the embedded browser, and query notifications.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-socket " PATH"
Path to the Unix domain socket. Defaults to
.IR $THANE_SOCKET_PATH ,
or
.IR $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/thane/thane.sock .
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print help information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS System
.TP
.B ping
Check if thane is running. Exits 0 on success.
.SS Workspace
.TP
.B workspace list
List all workspaces with their IDs, titles, and CWDs.
.TP
.B workspace create \fB\-\-title\fR \fITITLE\fR \fB\-\-cwd\fR \fIPATH\fR
Create a new workspace.
.TP
.B workspace select \fIINDEX\fR
Switch to a workspace by index (0-based).
.TP
.B workspace close
Close the active workspace.
.TP
.B workspace rename \fITITLE\fR
Rename the active workspace.
.SS Surface (Pane)
.TP
.B surface split\-right
Split the focused pane horizontally (new pane to the right).
.TP
.B surface split\-down
Split the focused pane vertically (new pane below).
.TP
.B surface close
Close the focused pane.
.TP
.B surface focus\-next
Focus the next pane.
.TP
.B surface focus\-prev
Focus the previous pane.
.SS Browser
.TP
.B browser open \fIURL\fR
Open a browser panel in a new split with the given URL.
.TP
.B browser navigate \fIPANEL_ID\fR \fIURL\fR
Navigate a browser panel to a URL.
.TP
.B browser eval\-js \fIPANEL_ID\fR \fISCRIPT\fR
Evaluate JavaScript in a browser panel.
.TP
.B browser get\-accessibility\-tree \fIPANEL_ID\fR
Extract the accessibility tree from a browser panel.
.TP
.B browser click\-element \fIPANEL_ID\fR \fISELECTOR\fR
Click an element in a browser panel by CSS selector.
.TP
.B browser type\-text \fIPANEL_ID\fR \fISELECTOR\fR \fITEXT\fR
Type text into an element in a browser panel.
.SS Notification
.TP
.B notification list
List recent notifications for the active workspace.
.TP
.B notification send \fB\-\-title\fR \fITITLE\fR \fB\-\-body\fR \fIBODY\fR
Send a notification to the active workspace.
.TP
.B notification clear
Clear all notifications for the active workspace.
.SS Sidebar
.TP
.B sidebar toggle
Toggle sidebar visibility.
.TP
.B sidebar status
Show sidebar metadata for the active workspace.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B THANE_SOCKET_PATH
Path to the Unix domain socket. Overrides the default location.
.SH EXAMPLES
Check if thane is running:
.PP
.RS
.B thane-cli ping
.RE
.PP
Create a workspace for a project:
.PP
.RS
.B thane-cli workspace create \-\-title "my-app" \-\-cwd ~/projects/my-app
.RE
.PP
Open a dev server in the embedded browser:
.PP
.RS
.B thane-cli browser open http://localhost:3000
.RE
.PP
Get page title via JavaScript:
.PP
.RS
.B thane-cli browser eval-js <panel-id> "document.title"
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR thane (1)
.SH AUTHORS
thane contributors.
.SH LICENSE
AGPL-3.0-or-later. Commercial licensing available.
